<p>Seeds of the accession Bur-0, Col-0, Can-0, Ct-1, Edi-0, Hi-0, Kn-0, Ler-0, Mt-0, No-0, Oy-0, Po-0, Rsch-4, Sf-2, Tsu-0, Wil-2, Ws-0, Wu-0, and Zu-0 of Arabidopsis thaliana were obtained from the European Arabidopsis Stock Centre and surface sterilized prior to plant cultivation. Then, all accessions were cultivated in a hydroponic system with three independent biological experiments.</p><p><br></p><p>For hydroponic cultivation, a pre- and main culture set-up was used. The pre-culture system consisted of PCR tubes filled with approx. 170 µl agar solution (8% (w/v) GELRITE, 1% (w/v) sucrose) placed in a yellow pipette tip box. After solidification, bottoms were cut and individual seeds were sown on a total of 48 tubes, submerged partially in nutrient solution (half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 1% (w/v) sucrose and Gamborg’s B-5 vitamins (Duchefa), pH 5.8). Boxes were closed with their lids and sealed with leucoplast (Duchefa). Plants were grown at 22 °C under short-day conditions (8 h light, 130 µmol/m2/s) to prevent early inflorescences until all roots had penetrated the agar plug. After three weeks, the main-culture system was set up. Tubes were transferred into perforated screw caps of 50ml amber bottles (Duran, Wertheim/Germany) filled with approximately 70 ml nutrient solution. Modified MS medium (1.0 mM KH2PO4, 1 mM MgSO4, 0.25 mM K2SO4, 0.25 mM CaCl2, 2 mM NH4-NO3, 0.1 mM Na-Fe-EDTA, 50 µM KCl, 30 µM H3BO3, 5 µM MnSO4,1 µM ZnSO4, 1 µM CuSO4, 0.7 µM NaMoO4, pH 5.8) was used as a culturing medium to enable plant growth over a prolonged period without osmotic stress and sufficient nutrient supply. Medium was exchanged weekly accompanied by a check for microbial contamination after harvest. Glass bottles were kept in sealed plastic boxes (Araponics, Liège/Belgium) with 12 plants each.</p><p><br></p><p>This experimental setup resulted in 228 root samples from individual plants. Single-plant roots were harvested at week 6 and homogenized in liquid nitrogen using a pestle and mortar, resulting in 222 and 210 usable root samples for LC/MS and GC/MS analysis, respectively. Primary root length was determined with a ruler, root fresh weight with fine scales, and results are listed in Table phenotypicCharacteristics.csv.</p>

