<p><strong>LC/MS:</strong></p><p>Targeted; DataAnalysis 4.0 (Bruker Daltonics) was used for generation of extracted ion chromatograms, deconvolution of compound mass spectra and calculation of elemental compositions. For the relative quantification of compounds extracted, ion chromatograms of quantifier ions were integrated applying QuantAnalysis 2.0 (Bruker Daltonics).</p><p>Untargeted; Raw data files were converted to mzData using CompassXPort (Bruker Daltonics 4.0). Subsequently, the R package XCMS [1] was used for feature detection, alignment and filling of missing values. On this account, features were detected with the help of the centWave algorithm according to Tautenhahn et al. (2008) [2] (sntresh: 5, prefilter: (3,100), ppm: 20, peak width: (5,12), scanrange=c(1,3060) and aligned using the XCMS function group.density (minfrac: 0.75, bw: 2, mzwid: 0.05). Missing values were replaced with the help of the XCMS function fillPeaks.</p><p><br></p><p><strong>GC/MS:</strong></p><p>Vendor file format conversion and baseline correction was performed by MetAlign. Peaks with intensities above 500 were subsequently processed with TagFinder and mass spectral features were grouped according to their retention time. Peak clusters with 3 peaks were extracted.</p><p><br></p><p><strong>Ref:</strong></p><p><strong>[1]</strong> Smith CA, Want EJ, O'Maille G, Abagyan R, Siuzdak G. Anal Chem. XCMS: processing mass spectrometry data for metabolite profiling using nonlinear peak alignment, matching, and identification. 2006 Feb; 78(3):779-87. [2] Tautenhahn R, Böttcher C, Neumann S. Highly sensitive feature detection for high resolution LC/MS. BMC Bioinformatics. 2008 Nov; 9:504.</p>

